Docs-6390-PM2.0-GA2-drafts-mc (#65)
mulesoft/docs-partner-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/manage-message-flows.adoc

= Manage Message Flows
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

After your message flow is running and you are using it with your partners, you should not have to change it much.
There are certain cases where you might need to make changes, for example:

* You are no longer trading with a particular partner and need to delete the message flow you created for them.

* You completed the testing for a deployed message flow in a pre-production environment, and now want to reclaim those previously allocated Mule runtime resources.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You want to update the map.
```

After a message flow is deployed, you can test it, undeploy it, and delete it.

> == Test Message Flows

Reviewer: Test Message Flows should be its own document since it has nothing to do with managing a message flow.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can send test messages through the message flow to make sure the map is working and your backend systems receive the transformed message.
```

You can test your message flow after you deploy it to ensure that you are receiving messages and any acknowledgments from your partners.

> You should ask your partner to confirm receipt of the transmission once you deploy it to your production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can ask your partner to confirm receipt of the acknowledgement.
```

> You can also test the flow by deploying it in a sandbox environment, then undeploying it, and then deploying it to a production environment.

Reviewer: This does not sound like any process we sanction. I'd remove this line.

> Test your flow in your production environment:

Reviewer: Remove

> . Drop an EDI file on the receiving endpoint.

Reviewer 2: We should say "initiate a transmission" or similar since "drop an EDI file" refers to SFTP only.

Author: Great point, thanks.

> . From within your Anypoint Partner Manager environment (either Sandbox or Production) select *Activity* and check for the transmission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From within Anypoint Partner Manager select *Activity* and check for the transmission.
```

> . Check the transmission details for the flow, specifically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the transmission details by clicking on the transmission, specifically:
```

> ** Check for any errors, and review any that you see for the partner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Check for any errors, and review any that you see for the partner.
```
```suggestion
** Check for any errors.
```

> ** Review the received payload by clicking the transmission and opening the payload info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Review the received payload by clicking View payload button next to _Received transmission_.
```

> ** Review and confirm that any TA1 and functional acknowledgments are there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Review and confirm that any TA1 and functional acknowledgments (999 or 997) are there.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Check that the transmission routed messages to the correct message flows.
```

+

> . Ensure that the messages are routed to the correct message flow from the target system. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ensure that the messages are routed to the target system. 
```

** It was successfully delivered to the target endpoint.

** The message was transformed correctly.

== Edit Message Flows

(Reviewers, I don't have this section fully fleshed out yet.)

> You can make changes to a message flow such as adding receiving endpoints and certificates;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make changes to a message flow such adding identifiers, selecting different endpoints, or importing a different DataWeave map.
```

> modifying your DataWeave maps; plus changing the associated message types and target endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Overview of steps include:

* Change receiving endpoints, (non AS2 Identifiers???), and certificates.

* Change associated message types (X12 or JSON) and acknowledgments.

* Upload different DataWeave maps.

* Change associated target message types (X12 or JSON) and endpoints.

You handle this by opening an existing message flow and make your changes directly in the sections you intend to modify.

> Consider that any changes to a deployed message flow may impact future message flows. (Reviewers, I'm trying to alert the users to any issues that can come up from changing a deployed message flow.)

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we should include this warning. Maybe we could say something like "modifying identifiers will impact deployed message flows" or similar

Author: Fixed.

* They continue to stay in the transmission records within the Activity page, but the records indicate that the corresponding message flow used to process this transmission is now deleted.
Furthermore, these activities are converted into read-only mode.
This means that no links to the message flow work. Only the links that were set up to the stored payloads (such as the original B2B message, any TA1 acknowledgments, the transformed payload, on so on) continue to work.

. Make sure the server group in Anypoint Runtime Manager called: B2BServerGroup is running.

NOTE: If you are unsure, you should contact your B2B System Administrator or check the status of the server in Runtime manager: https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/servers-settings[Server Settings].

. From within your Anypoint Partner Manager environment (either Sandbox or Production), click *Message Flows* in the upper left and select a message flow.

. Click *Undeploy* in the upper right. After the undeployment is successful, proceed to delete the message flow.

. Click  *Delete* in the upper right.

> == Delete Identifiers

Reviewer: This section should not be in Manage message flows because you can't do this from a message flow. It should be in a section Manager partners

. Choose the partner name and click *Receive from <Partner name>* to expand it.

. Select an identifier to the message flow, click *See All*.

. Hover over the identifier you want to delete and click the trash can icon that appears towards the right hand side of the identifiers row. 

. If you need a replacement, add it now by clicking the New button.

== Delete Partners

If you are no longer trading with a partner, you can remove the partner by deleting it. Consider that deleting a partner deletes all assets associated with that partner as well as configuration records for it. For example:

** Undeployment of all deployed messages

** Deletion of all message flows, identifiers, endpoints, and certificates associated with that partner

** Removes all listed assets

** Removes the partner from the partner list

When a partner is deleted, all activities related to the partner are converted into a read-only mode so no links to the message flows work.
Only the links to the stored payloads (such as the original B2B message, any TA1 acknowledgments, transformed payloads, and so on) continue to work.
The partner’s name stays in the transmission records but is marked as deleted.

> After successfully deleting a partner, you can create a new partner with the same name as the deleted partner. (Again, why would the user want to do this?)

Reviewer: Delete

** It was successfully delivered to the target endpoint.

** The message was transformed correctly.

== Edit Message Flows

(Reviewers, I don't have this section fully fleshed out yet.)

You can make changes to a message flow such as adding receiving endpoints and certificates;
modifying your DataWeave maps; plus changing the associated message types and target endpoints.

Overview of steps include:

* Change receiving endpoints & certificates.

* Modify DataWeave maps.

* Change associated message types.

* Change associated target endpoints.

You handle this by opening an existing message flow and make your changes directly in the sections you intend to modify.

Consider that any changes to a deployed message flow may impact ...

When you are done with your changes, deploy the message flow to ensure that the changes are propagated to the Mule applications on your Mule runtime.

. From within your Anypoint Partner Manager environment (either Sandbox or Production), click *Message Flows* in the upper left and select a message flow.

. Choose the partner name and click *Receive from <Partner name>* to expand it.

> . If you want to add an identifier to the message flow, click *New*.

Reviewer 3: There is no new button to click without seeing all identifiers first.
```suggestion
. If you want to add an identifier to the message flow, click *See All* and then *New*.
```

+
* To create a new endpoint, depending on the protocol, refer to the following:

* xref:endpoint-sftp-receive-target.adoc[SFTP Receive Endpoint Settings]

* xref:endpoint-https-send.adoc[HTTP and HTTPS Send Configuration]

. After you update the source, map, and target sections in the interface, confirm that each shows a green check mark next to it in the flow), and click *Deploy* to deploy the configurations to your Mule Runtime.

+
NOTE: It may take five minutes or so for your configuration changes to sync with Mule runtime.
+

. Use the Activity page to track processed messages. To test your message flow, refer to Test Message Flows.

Once a message flow is successfully deployed, you can track its processed messages from the Activity page.

== Undeploy Message Flows

You might want to undeploy a message flow so that you can delete it. Other reasons for undeploying a message flow are:

* To stop processing messages related to the deployed message flow configuration.

* To recover resources being consumed by a message flow that you no longer need.

When you undeploy a message flow, it stops any future messages from being processed by that flow.

> During the undeployment of a message flow usually about (five minutes?),

Reviewer 3: Yes, it is upto 5 minutes.

Author: Fixed.
